An experiment is a test whose primary function is to validate a hypothesis.
What does this mean exactly?
By principle, it's difficult to take things away from users,
especially if you have a B2B product,
as many of them may have already built operational workflows on top of it.
Experiments are good way to validate that features move KPIs without having to launch
the feature 100 percent and potentially having to
roll back if that feature was unsuccessful.
Hypotheses are theories that a feature, product,
optimization would move us towards meeting our key results.
A sample template for your hypotheses would be,
this feature solves the user need through this reason,
thus we expect it to move this KPI
by how much you think the KPI will move by or your threshold of success.
An example hypothesis would be,
if the admin onboarding flows for slack was extended from three modules to seven modules,
the implementation finish rates within
the time span of two weeks would increase by 23 percent.
In summary, an experiment is a test whose primary function is to validate a hypothesis.
A/B testing is just another name for two variant experiment.